now the first thing to know about
getting your dog or cat ready to go in
the car come on Duncan here we go it's
not to do it all of a sudden on the day
when you have to do to go to the vet er
take a trip somewhere you got to ease
them into this whole idea they don't
know what this is get them used to going
in the car in stages first by not going
anywhere at all get your pet in the car
front of the house then short little
drives around the neighborhood rewarded
with treats of course have blankets and
beds in the car that they are used to
that came out of the house I recognized
the smell then later when it really
matters they're not freaked out
remember animals get used to things they
don't understand like cars by
recognizing patterns that don't threaten
them over time so you've got to give
them time to get used to this machine
good boy now once you do get your pet
used to going around in the car here's
why it's important to secure them in
there our 60 pound friend here weighs
2,700 pounds when a car comes to a dead
stop from as little as 35 miles per hour
that inertia can be very damaging to him
to you and then you've got a freaked out
animal in the car after an accident who
if he's loose can be threatening first
responders or running out into traffic
getting himself hurt or causing another
actor and I'm sure you've seen these
sort of barricades that are used in
wagons and SUVs and they're fine for
compartmentalizing the vehicle but does
this look like it's up to the task of
handling 2,700 pounds of flying dog
no and that's where these safety
harnesses come in and get this whole
padded sort of chest piece here and then
it lashes over the back of their neck
and underneath the front legs kind of
goes on like this and this whole thing
clips to a sliding tether that goes onto
the shoulder belt portion in the second
row away from those front row airbags
dog should always be restrained in
vehicles even if you're just going on a
short journey but here's the problem a
recent study done by the Center for pet
safety in conjunction with Subaru
because their owners loved when their
dogs run on their cars found that a lot
of these harnesses are crapped they
gathered 11 of them in a recent survey
one of them tested really well six of
them basically broke on impact didn't
work out well at all four of them were
so bad that even bothered testing them
one with the unlikely name of Sleepypod
click it was the only one that held up
well in this study it happens to be
among the priciest as well at ninety to
a hundred bucks but seemingly money well
spent now when it comes to cats it's
kind of like harry and Tonto my cat has
to believe himself you're not supposed
to have any animals on it they're always
in a carrier on the road and then what
you want to do is use the belts to at
least lash this carrier in place again
second row away from front row airbags
you might also consider putting it down
in the well between the two rows of
seats that really kind of locks it in
and some cats love being in little
enclosed areas and look for a carrier
that's got places for the belt to sort
of snug in so it doesn't just slip off
like this let's talk about dogs in the
backs of pickup trucks a few states and
a few additional municipalities have
laws against it most do not the Marine
Humane Society was actually at the
forefront of introducing legislation to
ban that there's dangers with dogs
possibly flying out of vehicles if you
get into a collision or if you have to
stop short and we introduce that way
back in 1983 eventually a couple decades
later it became a state law in
California here's what you want to do to
use common sense get your dog into a
carrier a rigid carrier in the bed then
cross tether that so it's not sliding
around fore-and-aft left to right in any
kind of maneuver or impact if that's not
a possibility then investing in some
kind of harness would be another option
and of course it should go without
saying
park the car take the pet like it's
incredibly hot in a car on even a
slightly warm day if you're stopping
even just for an errand don't keep them
in the car without any ventilation
keeping your pets safe in the car it
pays humane dividends to double-check
that you've done it right